Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, by the time you see this broadcast, and all
probability Congress will have passed the labor reform bill.
In recent weeks, I have received a tremendous volume of letters and telegrams on the subject
of proposed labor legislation.
In the House Passes, so-called Land and Griffith Substitute, to the Senate Kennedy Irving
Bill, to the Kennedy Irving Bill, may have begun to reach a peak of about 1,000 letters
and telegrams each day.
I have tried to answer all of you during this time, the two versions of the labor bill
have been under consideration.
And I reply to you during the time they have been under in conference, has been in essence
this.
Let us give the countries a chance to come up with a bill which will correct racketeering
and corruption, where it exists in the labor movement, but will not destroy the basic
rights of millions of honest union men and women.
I believe the countries have worked hard toward that end.
The bill that came out of the conference was a great improvement over the original House
Substitute version, and I think it's a bill that labor can live with even though many
of them complain about it.
I believe that both the Land and Griffith Bill and the Kennedy Irving Bill contain provisions
that went a long way toward eliminating racketeering and corruption, wherever it existed
in the labor movement, and where it was uncovered by the material and committed.
And I think all American citizens were disgusted with the corruption and racketeering that was
uncovered by that committee.
But I think it should be pointed out that this was in a relatively few unions and not
in the great majority of them.
I doubt that there was ever any great disagreement between the two bills in this area of union
official responsibility and the right of union members.
Both bills had provisions for protecting funds of union members to prevent racketeering,
prevent misuse of funds, for a secret balance, and for the right of union members to take
place in elections and things of that kind.
I do think there were some points in the House Bill which would have unfairly penalized
honest labor unions.
Through their earnest efforts in the countries most of these have been eliminated and
glad to say.
If any further corrections are found to be needed in this respect, Congress will be here
early next year and can consider them and take action.
This brand has been a most difficult task for all concerns.
Give you an idea of the complexity and the intricacy of labor law that is involved in reaching
a bill that will be most fair to all.
Let me show you two key documents which the countries have been struggling with for
12 grueling days.
Here's the Landham Griffith Bill.
This is a bill that will be available in the United States for 9 days and many, many
nights.
Very intricate.
And out of these came the conference bill which I felt is fair, which may have some provisions
that need to be corrected.
Everybody is not going to be satisfied with every provision in it but Senator Kennedy and
Senator Goldwater.
All of the countries except one said this was the best that they could do.
I think the country wanted a labor bill.
I think the union members want protection against any unfair practices.
I think our, the purity of our union effort is a great importance.
And I'm glad that the bill has it long last been reported which will do a great deal
to straighten out some situations in which I can support.
I'm very sorry to report also that the public works bill was vetoed by the President.
It was not overwritten in the effort in the House that missed by one vote.
This included the West Tennessee tributaries and the Wolf River Project in Memphis.
I hope we can get these in any other bill that's passed.
That's all for now and thank you until next week.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee.
As I make this telecast, Congress is beginning to roll toward adjournment.
By the time you see this, it is possible that this session may have ended.
A number of important items of business hang in the balance however.
The mutual security appropriation bill has just been reported out of committee.
We are in the committee set until midnight the other night to hammer out the many items in this bill.
It contains provisions for continuing our Cold War defences on many fronts, economic and military.
As long as the free nations stand up to Soviet, Soviet Russia, free men will remain free.
If we lower our guard, the result could be suicide.
After two vetoes were the President, the Congress managed to vote out a housing bill,
which is apparently acceptable to the President.
It has been hard for this Congress to find anything that is acceptable all the way around to the White House.
For example, we had to give up a most vital item in the housing bill in order to get it passed the creeping vetoism,
which seems to have infected the White House.
This item was for $15 million for construction of college classrooms.
The administration expressed great concern over education after it was learned our country was behind the Russians in space missile development.
It seems that this concern has diminished when we must give up appropriations of such funds for winning the long-range battle of education with Russia.
Well, the public works bill was another which ran head-on into the President's fountain pen.
Twice he wrote no across Congress's effort to move forward with flood control and other public works needed everywhere in the nation.
The first time this bill came back to us, Congress cut 2.5 percent across the board out of it, reducing it almost $100,000 below the President's budget request.
He vetoed this also.
Well, I'm glad to report that the Congress has overwritten the second public works vetoed.
The bill contains two much-needed projects in West Tennessee.
One is the West Tennessee drainage projects project which would give relief from the continual flooding of farmlands and highways and the Forkadere and Obayan River areas.
The other is the Wolf River Project at Memphis, which would permit a new channel for the Wolf to alleviate the flooded Shelby County bottomlands and to remove the somewhat famous unpleasant smells from north and downtown Memphis.
As you can see, it has been an uphill battle against the President's veto.
I am very hopeful that he will not veto the Highway Financing Act of which has passed the other night.
Senator Gore and I and many others fought hard on the floor to continue the vital interstate highway program without slapping more gasoline taxes on the people.
We were defeated, but at least the tax increase was held to one cent and limited to 21 months.
This means that the states will be able to meet commitments to contractors and highway program will not bog down.
I'm happy to report to Senator Gore and I were successful in having an amendment to this bill adopted which provides the necessary funds to build a highway bridge over TVAs pickwicked dam.
The region around Savannah, Tennessee has needed this for some time.
We are assured by the Bureau of Public Roads that our amendment now makes it possible for them to conclude negotiations with the State to Act on this vital link in our highway system.
As the Congress struggles with its concluding workload, I'm sure that you have heard about Senator Wayne Mars' delaying tactics.
The Senator from Oregon has been the subject to considerable criticism for this.
I would like to say in his behalf that I feel sure that he is motivated by principles with your sound.
Senator Mars maintains that the Senate often acts too hastily and without sufficient debate and deliberation when it's trying to close up business at the end of the session.
He also maintains that the Congress of the United States should not turn tail and run out the back door just because premium cruise ship is scheduled to come in the front door.
I think it should be said in Senator Mars's defense that he is since here in his position.
I believe it's healthy to the Senate to have a dissenter like Senator Mars around.
It keeps our eye on the ball and in the long run reminds us all that we are here to do a thorough job and to not run hastily through the nation's business or run away from responsibility.
I hope I will have an opportunity to see you all again next week to report on the final actions of Congress.
Until then, best wishes and goodbye.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, the first session of the 86 Congress came to an end last week shortly after 6 a.m. on Tuesday.
Just before Mr. Crusher arrived in town.
One of the last pieces of business at the Senate and House acted upon was the question of whether or not to continue the Civil Rights Commission.
I join my colleague, Senator Albert Gore and the Distinguished Majority Leader and 69 other senators and voting for the Continuance of this Commission.
I predict that we will be more than happy that we have this group in being when the next session of the Congress sits next year, because sometime before the final vote was taken on its continual.
Several senators who have been pushing hard for drastic punitive civil rights legislation gave notice that they were being called the Congress of the Congress.
They were being ready to go to bat for such legislation on February 15th of next year.
If we permit this extreme legislation, if we are to prevent this extreme legislation from passing, we will have in the Civil Rights Commission a powerful argument against taking hasty and punitive action.
As long as the Commission is seeking the answer to these problems, which have a direct effect on the South, drastic steps will be much harder to ram through the Congress.
When the Senate First Considered Establishing is Civil Rights Commission, I voted for it.
Because I believe these are very serious problems that deserve careful and considered to study.
The right of every qualified citizen to vote, for instance, is to be sacred and basic.
And I think any intelligent investigation of voting privileges of any of our citizens is worthwhile.
The first report of the Commission, which I have studied very closely, is not I must say a very satisfactory one.
I am aware, of course, of the limitations of time under which the Commission had to work.
But that is really no excuse for a careless staff work or for half-baked proposals, and the report shows vote.
I was led to note however that the Commission recognizes that in 93 of the 95 counties of Tennessee, there is no question whatsoever of the right of any qualified citizen to vote.
And we are proud of that.
And two counties, there is somewhat of a problem.
And that is something in which the thoughtful people of Tennessee and indeed of these counties are concerned.
But in one of these counties, Haywood, the Commission shows the result of end-up staff work.
For example, allegations that niggros own more property and pay more taxes in that county than whites, and that they must observe a curfew,
and that they are not permitted near the courthouse unless they have business, or just not true.
I know that they are not true.
I have visited Haywood County not once, but many, many times.
I think such careless handling of the facts by a federal commission is inexcusable.
I presented all the more because concerning Haywood County, because that is the home county of my late beloved mother.
And I have many relatives and close friends there.
Many of the recommendations of the Commission are just as carefully conceived and wonderful from what I believe to be the intended school.
The recommendation, for instance, of federal registrars, for voting is one.
That's a problem that must be handled locally and not from the top.
I believe the Commission needlessly went into some fields of housing, which aggravates an already difficult situation.
But while I'm highly displeased with much of the Commission's work, although it does have some merit, frankly,
I believe we must take a hard look at the alternatives to continuing the Commission.
I did just that.
And I believe the next session of Congress will bear out my conclusion.
The extension of the Commission's life may be the best way we have to prevent legislation which would be harshly unfair to the South.
Yet the South opposes even a study of the problems involved.
And I'm afraid we may reap a whirlwind.
As Commissioner Badall a distinguished member of the Commission and former Governor of Virginia said,
we need to have considerably more discussion of the problems of human relations before legislative action is taken.
Ladies and gentlemen, this will be the last telecast of this year.
I want to thank the Station for carrying these as a public servant service.
And I hope that we can continue them on next year.
Now I want to thank you who have watched these for your suggestions and for your ideas.
And it's been my great pleasure to make them.
Until the next session of Congress goodbye.